# Migrating From v0.5 to `main`

This file contains migration guides for breaking changes that have happened on the `main` branch
since the latest release. These guides are evolving and may not be polished yet.

See [migration-guides/README.md](./README.md) and existing entries for information about Avian's
migration guide process and what to put here.

## Broad Phase Rework

PR [#927](https://github.com/avianphysics/avian/pull/927) overhauled broad phase collision detection
to use a Bounding Volume Hierarchy (BVH).

`BroadPhasePlugin` has been replaced by two plugins:

- `BroadPhaseCorePlugin`: Sets up resources, system sets, and diagnostics required for broad phase collision detection.
- `BvhBroadPhasePlugin`: Implements a broad phase using a BVH to efficiently find overlapping AABBs.

The latter can be swapped out for a custom broad phase implementation if desired.
See the documentation of the `broad_phase plugin for more information.

The `BroadPhaseSystems::UpdateStructures` system set has also been removed.
The BVH acceleration structures are updated by the `ColliderTreePlugin`,
in `ColliderTreeSystems::UpdateAabbs`.

Contact pair creation order can be different from before due to the new broad phase algorithm,
resulting in slightly changed behavior (but you should not rely on a specific contact order anyway).
The order should still be deterministic across runs, given the same inputs.

Previously, `ContactPair::body1` and `ContactPair::body2` also used the `Entity` of the collider
if the collider was not attached to a body. Now, the properties are instead `None`.

## `ReadRigidBodyForces` and `WriteRigidBodyForces`

PR [#908](https://github.com/avianphysics/avian/pull/908) introduced two new traits: `ReadRigidBodyForces` and `WriteRigidBodyForces`, and `RigidyBodyForces` is now defined as:

```rust
pub trait RigidBodyForces: ReadRigidBodyForces + WriteRigidBodyForces {}
```

In most cases this should just work, but if it doesn't, you can replace your implementation for `RigidBodyForces` with both `ReadRigidBodyForces` and `WriteRigidBodyForces` where it is used / needed. Both traits are required to implement `RigidBodyForces`, but you can implement them separately.

## `SleepBody` and `WakeBody`

The `SleepBody` and `WakeBody` commands now return an error when applied for an entity that doesn't exist
or doesn't belong to an island. Previously, they logged a warning instead.
